---
title: "Post: Start Blogging With Jekyll and Git"
last_modified_at: 2021-02-25
categories:
  - Tech
tags:
  - Blogging
  - Git 
  - Jekyll
  - Minimal Mistakes
  - Ruby
---
### Intention in times of getting into blogging with Git? 
- Learning this, possibly collaborative (for coding and documentation, for example) tool called Git. 
- Well described process and structure, no need to dive into HTML, CSS, JS. 

Jekyll blogging as I perceive it, is used by many introverts to write about the things they have learnt. 

General setting **requires some experimentation** (might be fun) and following the guides you can find online. Jekyll blogging depends on a lot of previous infrastructure. Let's skip the basics necessities of your energy, it relies on the platforms, tools and framework as: Ruby, Jekyll, Git (GitHub as a choice), Markdown and so on. Thus basic competency in any or all of this might be of benefit. 

1. [Blogging with Jekyll using Minimal Mistakes Theme](https://purple.telstra.com.au/blog/opensource-blogging-with-jekyll-github-vscode-part-2)
Got an error doing $bundle exec jekyll serve while executing Remote Theme (Minimal-Mistakes): Could not find gem 'github-pages x64-mingw32' in any of the gem sources listed in your Gemfile.
Run `bundle install` to install missing gems.

2. Setting comments and Analytics
[Katerina's website was helpful](https://www.cross-validated.com/Personal-website-with-Minimal-Mistakes-Jekyll-Theme-HOWTO-Part-IV/)

### Useful Git commands to set up everything
- git status
- git remote -v
- git clone https://github.com/.../.git 

git add --all (git add .)
git commit -m 'another commit'
git push

git reset --hard origin/master 
git config --global core.longpaths true

### Some cleaning in Git
- git clean -d -i #interactive
- git clean -d -n #delete, dry run 

### Here is how to quickly introduce a blog to a tech-savvy person by giving him this tool (GitHub account would be required)
- get Minimal Mistakes starter theme (by M. Rose)
- go live with setting > github pages, choosing a branch 

- _config.yml: exclude from processing (bundle, vendor etc.)
- add .bundle/ and vendor/ to .gitignore 

- _config.yml: author, name and other personalized adjustments 
- add ava pic, post images to assets/images/
- edit some pages and delete others? = ready to sent to a friend for a feedback 
- _config.yml: add analytics 

```Ruby 
Adding trackers to "_config.yml":

analytics:
  provider: "google"
  google:
    tracking_id: "" 
    anonymize_ip: true

bing_site_verification: "" (lenghty string comes there)
```

### Leaving the last reference as is, it comes together with Jekyll blogging intro
Check out the [Jekyll docs](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home) for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll). 

<meta name="msvalidate.01" content="7A96D455B03667537A649E9E535AC3CF" /> 
