---
title: "Welcome to my site!"
date: 2021-01-12T15:00:30-04:00
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - hello
  - post
---
<meta name="msvalidate.01" content="7A96D455B03667537A649E9E535AC3CF" />

## Useful Git commands to set up everything
- git status
- git remote -v
- git clone https://github.com/scriptingforgood/scriptingforgood.github.io.git 

### somehow, couldn't access ruby, bundler and jekyll, thus, couldn't work with already some existing github pages. 
I didn't understand the difference between wsl way and console way in VS Code when everything is already settled. Decided to go with Ruby-installer on  both machines I had. Because.. Memory. Perhaps, for it to work better, one way only is good. One non-dual way. Then I could describe it, iterate it. Kind of the path travelled. 

### Some cleaning in Git
git clean -d -i #interactive
git clean -d -n # delete, dry run 

## Making a page for a friend: 
- get minimal mistakes starter theme 
- go live with setting > github pages, choosing a branch 

- _config.yml: exclude from processing (bundle, vendor etc.) 
- add .bundle/ and vendor/ to .gitignore 

- _config.yml: author, name etc. 
- add ava pic, post images to assets/images/
- edit some pages and delete others? = ready to sent to a friend for a feedback 
- _config.yml: add analytics 


### Leaving this as is, as originally this post was a Jekyll blogging intro
Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
